if you're buying a house because you
don't do it run for your life Mr Morgan
H he's the author of the psychology of
money one of the bestselling business
books of this decade he can help anyone
build wealth and change their life the
world is split between people who don't
know how to start making money and
people who don't know when to stop
making money and if you are stuck in a
low-income job you feel like you don't
have the opportunity to generate wealth
but once you realize that opportunities
are available for everybody you can
choose where you want to live what job
you want when you retire because you can
be rich prove it people like Ronald Reed
and he was a janitor what does it take
to amass Mr Reed's $8 million Fortune
he's a fascinating story of somebody who
became Rich despite not having the
skills that you normally associated with
wealthy people then there's Warren
Buffett he's worth $100 billion do but
the real secret to their success
investing my parents are a great example
of this we were very poor no Financial
background and they have like minimal
financial interest but now they'd
probably be in the top 3% of
professional investors if you want to do
well with money you don't need to be a
genius if you have endurance in your
investing you're going to be filthy rich
but when most people say I want to be a
millionaire what they actually mean is I
want to spend a million dollars I want
some nice clothes bigger house the nicer
car ask yourself what is your
relationship with money if your
expectations rise faster than your
income you're never going to be happy
with your money that's the problem so if
I have1 what's the first thing that I
should do I keep it as painfully simple
as I can so
ladies and gentlemen you're about to
meet the man whose book changed my
entire life as it relates to money and
finance about four or five years ago my
brother who's a investment banker said
Steve there's one book I need you to
read about wealth investing and money in
finance and he passed me a book called
the psychology of money that book
changed my fortunes it is the reason
I've been a successful investor and it's
the reason I've been able to hold on to
my wealth and build it it's this man and
that's the reason why you need to stay
tuned and listen to this
[Music]
episode
Morgan you wrote what I would consider
to be the greatest book on money and
finance ever written I say that because
I remember when I came into money when I
was 25 20 no 27 27 28 years old and my
brother turned to me and said there's
one thing I ask of you he said you have
to read this book called the psychology
of money it will stop you losing all of
the money you've just earned from your
career and it changed my life I've
talked about it for years and years ever
since and that's why I was so Keen to
have this conversation with you because
I really believe if people choose to
listen to this conversation it stands
the chance of changing those two so
let's begin why of all the things that
you could do with your life Morgan why
are you writing books about the subject
matter that you explore what is the
reason well first that's a that's a big
statement that's a lot to live up to
it's kind of scary to hear that because
I've I've often been and this gets to
the why I I've defined it as selfish
writing where I write for an audience of
one and that is me and I like to think
of myself as a pretty selfless person
but for writing I don't try to say I'm
going to write a book for this person or
that person or that audience I write
what I'm interested in and I write it in
a way that I think is interesting and I
try to solve my own problem problems and
then I take a leap of faith that if this
is interesting to me and it's going to
help me maybe it'll help somebody else
that's very different from the
traditional writing style of saying know
your audience know your audience very
quickly turns into Pander to your
audience and I think a lot of people
maybe they don't even know it but if
they read a book and they don't
necessarily like it it's because they
were being pandered to they were being
spoken to in a way that a person would
never speak to them in real life so I
just this is almost like my diary I
think in terms of these are the topics
that I found interesting for myself and
so I guess that's the why I feel like
I've really found myself in a career
where I can just figure out my own
problems and try to figure out what I
think and what's interesting to me and
then kind of put it out to the world and
then hope that other people will enjoy
it let's start with the psychology of
money what is the benefit to my life if
I understand the things that are written
in the psychology of money well let me
start with I think most Finance books
will their their answer to that question
would be when you're done with this book
you will know how to pick stocks better
you will know how to balance your
checking account or what credit cards
that you should use for my book I think
when you're done with it I hope that you
will just look in the mirror and say who
am I which is kind of what I did with
this trying to figure out who I am and
what I want and why I was insecure why I
wanted to show off to other people the
car that I drove so if you become more
introspective about who you are and what
you want out of life and what money can
do for you and cannot do for you and
become a little bit more introspective
about why you think
about where you are in the social
hierarchy and greed and fear and why you
think about these things that you do I I
honestly think that I I I hope at least
because it was this way for me that when
you're done for with the book that's
kind of when the learning begins because
maybe this will just spark a bit of
curiosity for you to then go for a walk
and think about what you want out of
life and whatnot so I think most books
when you're done with the last page the
learning is done this I hope is just
sparked something in you that will get
you to think more clearly about what you
want with money and what money can and
cannot do for you part of that journey
of understanding what you want helps you
to define the word on the front of this
book wealth what is your definition of
wealth well I I I made up these
definitions in the book so these are
just my things that I made up but I
defined rich as you have enough money to
buy what you want to pay for your
mortgage to make your car payment to go
out to dinner with your friends you have
money in the bank wealth I think is very
different wealth is money that you did
not spend and maybe you will not spend
so wealth is hidden it's the money that
you didn't spend on a car it's the money
that you didn't spend on a big house you
didn't spend on jewelry and that's
really important because wealth that's
saved up the unspent money is what gives
you Independence and autonomy and just
the ability to wake up every morning and
do whatever you want with your with your
life and so I think separating that is
really important because when most
people say I want to be a millionaire
what they actually mean is I want to
spend a million dollars that's what they
mean and when I think about being a
millionaire I think it's you have a
million dollars that you're not going to
spend and that because you're not going
to spend it you have this giant cushion
that will give you Independence and
autonomy and so you can wake up tomorrow
and say I can do whatever the hell I
want today I can work for who I want I
can work for as long as I want I can
retire when I want the World is Yours
like every bit of savings that you have
is a piece of your future that you own
it's a you're just buying your time in
the future so that it's yours and you
can do whatever you want with it and
that to me has always been the goal
there's a quote from Charlie Munger
where he says I never wanted to become
rich I just wanted to become independent
and that when the first time I read it
it was like that's me too that's what I
want I don't want a Lamborghini I don't
want a mansion and a yacht I want to
wake up every morning and just say
whatever I want to do today it's mine
nobody's going to tell me where to work
when to work what to do it's all me and
to me for not just work but for your
family life for your health for your
mental sanity there's nothing more
important than that it sounds like
you're talking about your
father my dad it was he has such an
interesting background my my my mother
too their background is so crazy and I
didn't realize how crazy it was until I
was an adult the early part of my
childhood when my parents were in school
we were very poor my parents were
students living off of student loans and
grants we had no money and then my dad
became a doctor when I was 12 or 13 and
things changed it wasn't we were not
rich but like things got very
comfortable and what was really
important is that the frugality that my
parents had to have when they were poor
stuck with them even after they started
making a little bit of money they didn't
buy a Lamborghini no no we grew up in a
very like modest house it was a nice
house and we took some like decent
family vacations but my we always live
well below our means way below our means
did that confuse you because you must
have known that your dad had the money
yes particularly when I was probably
like 16 17 and I could learn like how
much does a doctor make you can go look
it up and figure it out and and then it
was like I definitely looked down on my
parents at that age because I was like I
know you can afford a better car I know
you can buy me better Christmas presents
I know we can afford a bigger house and
you're and you're not doing it because
you're mean I think that was I think
that was my view and then it really
clicked about 10 years ago this is not
that long ago so my dad is an ER doctor
which is one of the most stressful jobs
that you can imagine it's literally
people dying in your arms every day and
he did this for 20 years and after after
20 years of doing this night shifts
children dying in your arms literally
every every week he said he he had had
enough it was it was a lot he put in his
dues he did it for 20 years and he said
I'm done I'm I'm going to retire and the
reason he could do that is because he
had saved up so much money he was living
well below his means they had a very
high savings rate the moment he woke up
and said I want to be done he was done
and that was it and if you contrast that
with so many other people including some
of his colleagues who were also burnt
out at age 60 who were also so burnt out
by having people die in their arms for
20 years they wanted to retire and they
couldn't because they had the bigger
house because they had the nicer car
that I thought that we should have had
when we were growing up and when they
quit and moved on to their next phase of
Life they got so much happier and so it
was like so that this was 10 years ago I
was in you know in my late 20s at this
point I was like now I get it he was
Frugal he saved a lot and that made him
independent and the Independence made
him Happ than any car would have done
made them happier than any big house
would have done so it's like I think
that is one of the keys to happiness
happiness is like the most complicated
topic you can imagine but one of the big
puzzle pieces is independence and
there's been a lot of work on this
studies on this of like one of the
things that makes people really happy in
life is having control over what they're
doing and it's more so the flip of side
of that it's like what makes people very
unhappy in life not having control over
what happens in their future not having
control over their schedule where
they're going to work whether they're
going to get laid off having that
uncertainty is a massive anchor and
waight on your life your health
absolutely I mean that was a big thing
for my dad too he was working night
shifts for for 20 years with this it
it's very bad for your health it's not
great at all so the ability the
financial ability to just wake up one
day and say I'm done done with that is
huge I I was reading studies about this
idea of autonomy because I was trying to
figure out what you have to have
professionally to love your work and I
came up with these five different points
one of them was autonomy and control and
I I came up with that because I read
studies where people who work jobs where
they had a low autonomy and control had
physiological consequences they were
more likely to get disease they
experienced stress significantly more
more likely to have cardiovascular
problems and heart disease which is the
single biggest killer of of people
generally I thought [__] hell just
not having control in your life yeah
makes your body shut down yes you know
this is something that I think everybody
has experienced if they have something
really stress going on at life they get
into bed they're tired you can feel your
heart pounding like the physiological
response of stress is huge it's massive
and if you have that going on every day
for 5 years 10 years 20 years 30 years
forget about it forget about it this's
this great quote from John D Rockefeller
he's the richest man in the world and he
lived till I think he was 99 something
like that he was 97 and his doctor
talked about why like his key to
longevity and the doctor said quote he
never lets any anything bother him he
spends plenty of time outside and he
leaves the table when he's still a
little bit hungry that was his key to
longevity it was just and and when you
read his biography you realize how true
that was no matter what was going on in
his life and the most stressful business
conditions you can imagine none of it
ever bothered him he just had ice in his
veins and he could just keep going and
so I I I do think that's that's
definitely one of like the keys to
physical health is lowering that amount
of stress and there are not many other
things in life that are going to
increase the stress that you have have
than not having control over what you're
doing in life Freedom chapter seven of
your book this is the broadest lifestyle
variable that makes people happy doing
something you love but on a schedule you
can't control starts to feel the same as
doing something you hate psychologists
call this reactants that's right you
know I I do think there are a lot of I
think the best example are CEOs who
might make $30 million a year $50
million a year but they have no control
over their time every single second of
day is planned and demanded by somebody
else and they have to do things that
they don't want to do if they wake up
and they're tired too bad you got to go
to your meetings today they wake up and
they're exhausted too bad you have to
travel to China to close this deal they
have no control over their time and
compare that to someone who makes much
less but they wake up they can wake up
and do whatever they want whatever they
want to do you want to hang out with
your friends you want to sleep in you
want to take a nap at 2 o'clock whatever
you want to do the person who I think
really sticks out in that in that vein
is Warren Buffett who is the the CEO who
makes a zillion a year he's worth
hundred billion do but if you dig into
how he structured his day total control
100% autonomy can do whatever the hell
he wants all day long what he wants to
do is get up and go to work but he he
has delegated things so effectively that
he can do whatever he wants and that's
not only the key to his I think business
success but his health lifestyle success
why he's 93 and still going as strong as
ever I I was thinking about my calendar
when you were talking about the CEO that
makes $30 million a year but is just
dragged around by his schedule sounds a
lot like me to be honest I feel like the
more successful I've got in my
professional career the more my calendar
the minute I wake up in the morning I'm
just like a puppet master to these
little boxes on my Google Calendar yeah
they drag me around the world and
there's very little I actually said to
my assistant about a month ago I was
like um Sophie please can you do me a
favor could you just put lunch in for 30
minutes because I'm not eating could you
just put like could you just put that in
midday every day at the same time so you
can breathe so I can have a little bit
of a moment I do nothing and then also
the other thing I've put in now I have a
personal trainer 7 days a week and I've
just put that in my calendar it was
before then a residual beneficiary as
was everything for me well not for me
because my work is for me but um it it
got the time that was left over when all
my priorities were done and I do reflect
on that and go like how like a when does
that stop because it's clearly not going
to stop when I make money because I have
the money and B how much control do I
actually have and you know what I do
sometimes I think I've noticed about
myself I think sometimes I councel
things just to prove to myself that I
still have control that's great see
that's a good thing there's a quote from
n talb where he says like you are
wealthy when the money that you deny
tastes better than the money you accept
so you get someone comes to you with a
business deal and you say no thanks I
don't want it when that tastes better to
you than accepting the deal it feels
better to you that's like one definition
of of Rich there's another great quote
from TYB where he says the world is
split evenly between people who don't
know how to start making money and
people who don't know when to stop
making money and I think there are a lot
of people that are watching this that
are in kind of our field who are easily
in the ladder they have all the money
that they could ever want to spend or
maybe not not that much but they have
more money than they ever thought they
would have but for every gold that they
hit oh when whenever my net worth is X
all my problems are going to go away
everything's going to feel great and
then they hit X and they just keep
moving the goalpost down and down so I
read in the book that like the hardest
Financial skill is getting the goalpost
to stop moving it's the hardest thing in
the world it's hard for everybody
because virtually everybody thinks if my
net worth or my income was this level
I'll be fine I'll feel great no more
problems I'll wake up every morning with
a smile on my face and then if you're
lucky enough or you work hard enough to
get there you realize it's not the case
at all you're just going to keep pushing
it keep pushing it keep pushing it
forever have they done studies to test
that in terms of analyzing whether
people's goal posts move off into the
future even when they're like
billionaires and whatever I mean here's
here's the broadest way that I would
frame this up that as has been studied
if you look at America today the average
household adjusted for inflation is
making twice as much money than they
were in the 1950s to adjusted for
inflation the average household double
the income that they were back then and
we less happy the statistics that try to
measure happiness over time it's not an
easy thing to do but we're less happy
today than we were back then and this is
why like look can money buy happiness
yes and to some extent does it yes like
people who are in abject poverty are not
as happy as people who are covering the
basics and they have food and shelter
etc etc but over time when you when the
society is getting richer and you're
comparing yourself to other people and
maybe the average American's income
doubled but so did their neighbors so
did their co-workers so did their
siblings so you just automatically
adjust to that I talked about
Rockefeller before Johnny Rockefeller
who died in I think the 1930s he was
worth adjusted for inflation almost half
a trillion dollars during his day
adjusted for inflation but he never had
during his life penicillin Advil
sunscreen polio vaccine keep keep going
down the list of things that virtually
everyone can take advantage of today
that he never had but you can't say that
the average American is living better
than Rockefeller today because we have
all of these technologies that he never
did because we just look at what other
people have and assume that that is the
Baseline so you can imagine a world in
which my kids my grandkids are earning
twice as much as me adjusted for
inflation and they're no happier for it
because the new technologies whatever it
would be that would seem like magic to
you and I will just become their
Baseline and that's always been the case
if there was if Thomas Jefferson or
somebody came to the year 2023 he would
faint at the new technologies and the
medical discoveries that we have and
these are technologies that you and I
don't spend one second being grateful
for because we've just accepted them as
a new Baseline it reminds me of
something in your new book which is out
in November which is
you know I've gassed up a lot of books
on this podcast before but this is one
of my favorite of all time it's just so
easy to read and so engaging because you
you're one of those authors in this book
that realizes the world that the reader
living in and they are busy and they
want the point and they want you to you
know give them not one word more than
you need to it is so brilliant it's so
brilliant um in this book you talk about
exactly that you say the first rule of
happiness is low expectations Y and
that's exactly what you're talking about
is comparison is the thief of Joy
because it just raises our own
expectations right when with that out
the window goes our happiness yeah and
it's it it it seems counterintuitive to
people that if you want to be H for most
people it's if you want to be happier
you need to be ambitious you need more
you need to make more money work harder
have a more successful startup whatever
it would be and there's that's true but
that's half the equation the other half
the equation is keep your expectations
low so the gap between those two it's a
gap between those two that actually
accru to happiness over time how did you
learn that I think it's just I think
there have been a couple little stories
that really stuck out to me one that I
love that just knocked me on my ass the
first time I read it was Stephen Hawking
the late physicist who was without
exaggeration one of the smartest people
to ever walk this planet he was just an
absolute genius and a quirky of course
is that he had a motor neuron disease
and he was paralyzed from head to toe he
had no control over his body he spoke
through a computer not a single muscle
in his body could he actually control by
himself so he was you know
physiologically it's one of the worst
Liv that you can imagine and he did an
interview with the New York Times a
couple years before he died and during
the interview he's talking about how
happy he was and how amazing his life
was and the New York Times said they
asked him they said what is your secret
to happiness like if there's anyone who
has the right to complain about life
it's it's that guy and he's talking
about how happy he was and he said my
expectations were reduced to zero when I
was 21 which is when he got his disease
and he said everything else since then
has been a bonus so this is like the who
whose life is like has ended up in a way
that most people watching that would say
like that's among the worst scenarios
you can imagine and he's probably
happier than you and I because his
expectations were so low that just
waking up in the morning and seeing the
sunrise and getting to go to work and
talk to people was this magical gift I
mean you can imagine not to get too
morbid about this but imagine you're on
your deathbed and the doctor is very
confident that you're going to die
tomorrow and let's say that you make it
one more day what is that Sunrise going
to feel like what's that you know
holding your your wife's hand for one
more day going to feel like it' be
amazing just because your expectations
were on the floor and so it it's always
like that and you go through life seeing
so many people who have everything all
the money the great family all the
health the beauty everything you can
imagine and they're not happy for it and
it's because with everything that they
have their expectations rise not only to
that level they might rise above it so
if you are some if your expectations
rise faster than your inome
you're never going to be happy with your
money no matter how much money you make
you can make a billion dollars a year
but if you needed and wanted 1.1 billion
you're broke you feel broke and the
reverse of that is true too there are
people who make $50,000 a year but if
they only need 40 to be happy they're
sto they feel great and so that's I
think that's one of the reasons it's so
important is because managing your own
expectations is more in your control
than managing your circumstances in
terms of raising your income raising
your investing return
it's not that you can't control raising
your income you can be ambitious and
smart and entrepreneurial of but it's
more in your control to just inside your
head to say I'm going to try to want
less that that's just a mental exercise
that's it's not to say it's easy it's
not easy at all but you have total
control over doing it so how in a
practical sense can one go about keeping
their expectations below their
circumstances I guess here's here's one
that really made an impact on me and
it's great that we're in La cuz that's
where this story took place I was a
valet here in La all throughout college
at a fstar hotel here in town so a I I
was young I was you know aged 19 to 24
or something like that and all day it
was people driving in in Ferraris and
Lamborghinis and rolls-royces and one
day it hit me just I I I remember the
moment because it was like out of the
blue it hit me whenever someone would
drive in in a rollsroyce or something
never once would I look at the driver
and say that guy is cool like wow look
at him he's so cool what I did is I
imagined myself as the driver and then I
thought if I was a driver people would
think I'm cool and I was like wait don't
you see like the disconnect here nobody
cares about the driver but they want to
be the driver because they think people
will then care about them and once you
realize that like the takeaway is nobody
is thinking about you as much as you are
nobody cares about your stuff as much as
you do nobody cares about your car or
your house or your clothes or your
jewelry as much as you do because to the
extent that they're even looking at them
they're looking at your car looking at
your house really what they're doing is
imagining themselves with that nice car
they're not giving you the credit
they're imagining themselves having it
so once I realize like that was the game
that was being played in society once
you once you recognize that's the game
your willingness your desire to show off
plunges and of course I I like nice
stuff I like nice cars I want some nice
clothes I live in a decent house but
once you realize that it plunges and I
think the most valuable Financial skill
that anybody can have is not needing to
impress other people if you don't need
to impress other people that is an asset
on your balance sheet that is worth a
billion dollars because so much of
society as a whole and individual is
just geared towards how can I get other
people's attention how can I show off to
other people how can how can they like
me more I both agree and understand but
agreeing and understanding is different
from being able to do I think at the
society level it will never be it'll
always be like that same as ever it's
never it's never going to move away from
that if you can manage it around the
edges at the individual level it's
massive for your life one thing that's
important here is that if you are a
young person and you're kind of looking
for a spouse a mate a boyfriend a
girlfriend a wife a husband whatever it
would be then your ability to look
really nice and to signal and to kind of
put up your peacock feathers is
important and I get it and I did it back
in the day once you are more settled
down in your career in your
relationships if at that point you are
still hanging on to the desire to
impress other people that's when it's
broken that's when it's just pure net
loss in your life because you're trying
to show off to for people who you don't
even need or want to love you there's a
great quote from Warren Buffett where he
says the definition of success is when
the people who you want to love you do
love you and so for me it's like five
people it's like my parents my wife and
my kids and like that's it that's it
those are the people who I want to love
me and if they love me I I probably have
90% of the happiness that I'm capable of
and if they don't love me and then I'm
never going to have more than like 10%
of the happiness that I'm capable of in
that chapter about happiness you talk
about your friend Brent as well in his
theory on marriage yeah my friend Brent
B sure has this great theory on marriage
where he says marriage only works if
both Partners want to serve the other
partner and expect nothing in return so
you wake up every morning and you say I
want to serve my spouse but I expect
nothing in return from them and if you
both do that simultaneously you're both
pleasantly surprised because what
happens is I didn't expect you to do
anything for me but you did and vice
versa and both of you just wake up every
morning you're like but you did that for
me you you helped me out here you you're
empathetic to me there and it feels
great you exceeded my expectations
exceed my expectations and I think what
breaks down any marriage or career or
whatever it would be is when you become
needy like nothing breaks love more than
being needy and really what needy is is
just your expectations are so high that
you wake up and you say I expect to do
this for me I expect you to help me I
expect you to serve me that's just like
massively high expectations that you
have in that relationship it's it's also
like expecting an external factor in
that case your partner to validate you
in some way or to and that kind of goes
back to your point about money where in
order to stop showing off and focusing
on those five people that we want to
love
ourselves we need to understand and
ideally solve our often toxic
relationship with like our need for
validation and that I guess brings me to
the first chapter in your book where you
talk about the stories of money that we
have and where they've come from and
something that's always baffled me is
when you go into low-income areas
there's more gambling shops yeah and I
can attest to it when I was 18 19 years
old and I'm shoplifting pizzas to feed
myself and I'm doing all sorts of stuff
when I got my student loan in I was in
university for one day and they gave me
like the first payment of my student
loan I don't think I've ever said this
before I put the entirety of the payment
on a bet wow and I lost it in the six in
the an injury time of that football
match I don't bet and did you need that
money for tuition like it it was then it
was then gone I needed it to eat yeah I
wasn't speaking I had no money I don't
come I didn't come from money and my
parents I'd gone to University with 50
Quid and I got this like, sent to me
from student loan whatever I was so
reckless with money when I didn't have
money the minute I got money it's like
everything just chilled the [__] out and
I I became really longterm I made
responsible decisions I stopped buying
flashy things I like don't even own a TV
now I'm very Sim I feel like the more
money I have the less my material
desires are for sure for sure when I say
that out loud I'm like oh absolutely why
is that that when we have less we are
Reckless with our money well I think
there's two sides to this one of my
theories is
that what everyone wants in the world is
respect and admiration from other people
and there's kind of two ways to get that
you can get your respect and admiration
through your wisdom through your love
through your humor or if you don't have
that to offer from the to offer to the
world you're going to get it through
your material possessions so if you can
gain respect and admiration through your
business success your wisdom your love
your friendship great then you're going
to get it and you're going to fulfill
that bucket if you can't get it from
those things then you're like well might
as well show off my car it's all I got
to do that's all I have I think that's
one side of it so as you become more
successful your desire to show off
diminishes because you're gaining
respect and admiration through other
things that are not matural
the other side of this that's so
important is that you know I saw this
statistic years ago that the poorest 10%
of Americans buy like 80% of the lottery
tickets in America and these are people
who can like barely feed themselves
lowest 10% they're literally struggling
to put a roof over the head and feed
themselves are going out hand over fist
buying scratcher tickets and the the
knee-jerk reaction when you hear that is
morons what are you doing you idiot and
maybe that is the right reaction but I
started thinking about it and it was
like okay maybe if you try to put
yourself in those people's shoes maybe
they would say something like this if
you are stuck in a low-income job and
you feel like there's no way out you
feel like you don't have the opportunity
to work your way up the ladder become an
entrepreneur you feel like you're stuck
in this position buying a lottery ticket
might be the only thing in life that
gives you a little bit of hope it might
it's might be what feels like literally
your only ticket to get out and that
might be not something that you and I
feel like because because we have we we
we at least feel like we might have
other opportunities I it's you're so
right because when I gambled what I then
did the same day before the result of my
bet or my lottery ticket came in and I
said this to my team the other day is I
would go on right move and like auto
trader and look at stuff that I would
buy if I won yeah yeah I think there's a
sense too that if you are stuck in a
lower spot in life if you have a feeling
that the world is unfair and very often
it is so some maybe that that might be
the right mindset but if you feel the
world is unfair then it's very natural
to think I might as well cheat too if
the world's unfair why not might as well
cheat and I think that at least at some
level has some explanation for the
relationship between poverty and crime
that word hope is is so is so true I
think it's true too just a glimpse of
Hope because it gives you even if it's a
0.00001% chance if it's the only thing
in your day that made you smile a little
bit made you feel like you had a little
bit of hope then I get why they do it
the other reason the other thing I think
a lot about here is that if you are in a
low-income job and you're working
graveyard shifts and you're exhausted
and you're taking three buses to get
your kids to school if the only thing
that day that gives you a little bit of
pleasure is a cigarette and some alcohol
I get it I totally get it and that's
also the relationship between health and
poverty is a lot of that too so it's
very easy for people who are of higher
means to look down at those people and
point out all the bad decisions that
they're that they're doing in life but I
think you underestimate how much that
desire to just have a little bit of Hope
a little bit of pleasure and if those
feel like your only avenues for Hope and
pleasure maybe that's the explanation
for at least part of it quick one this
is really really fascinating to me on
the back end of our YouTube channel it
says that
69.9% of you that watch this channel
frequently over the lifetime of this
channel haven't yet hit the Subscribe
button I just wanted to ask you a favor
it helps this channel so much if you
choose to just subscribe helps us scale
the guest helps us scale the production
and it makes the show bigger so if I
could ask you for one favor if you've
watched the show before and you've
enjoyed it and you like this episode
that you're currently watching could you
please hit the Subscribe button thank
you so much and I will repay that
gesture by making sure that everything
we do here gets better and better and
better and better that is a promise I'm
willing to make you do we have a deal
let's speak then to 18-year-old Steve
that was in that little room with the
stack of these what they call County
Court judgments and bays and stuff stack
of letters on his desk what advice based
on all you know about money and finance
can you give to somebody who is Maybe
making a, $1,000 $2,000 a month covers
their rent just about doesn't have a lot
of money left over what is the best way
to go from that position to a position
of wealth in your
view I think one of the best ways to
think about it at the lower levels and I
explained a little bit this earlier but
to dig into it is a lot of what's
probably giving you stress in life is
that you don't have control over what
you're doing and if you view every
dollar of savings that you have as a bit
of your future that you own and control
then I think that mind that mindset can
shift pretty dramatically and it's like
that's that's the ticket out the ticket
out is not a nicer car it's not a bigger
house it's not better closeth the ticket
out is Independence that's what's going
to give you the better career that's
what's going to make you happier it's
what's going to make you healthier and
the only thing that's going to give you
Independence is having enough money
saved up so that you can choose where
you want to live maybe even what job you
want you can choose at at at some point
down the road when you retire if you get
sick it's not just going to break you
immediately having that Independence is
going to take more weight off your
shoulders than anything else you can do
in life save money that's it that's the
the title of that chapter in the book is
save money because you can't put it any
clearer or Starker like that's that's it
he says there are three types of people
those who
save those who don't think they can save
and those who don't think they need to
save yep three types of people which one
are you those who save those who don't
think they can save and those who don't
think they need to save I tell you what
I've been all three in my life that's
interesting I've always been a saver no
I haven't and see that I think that's
actually very rare that you change who
you are really on the nature nurture
Spectrum I actually think and this is
kind of disappointing to talk about it's
not fun to talk about but on the nature
of nurture Spectrum I think a lot of
money is nature Warren Buffett talks
about the people who have the money mind
which means like either they get it or
they don't and if they get it they get
it instantly and if they don't they'll
get it never at all I I I actually don't
believe in it it's that black and white
Charlie merer explains it like that he
says when explaining financial matters
to young people they either get it
instantly or never at all and he's
putting that too starkly I think I don't
think it's that black and white but on
the nature nurture spectrum is it 8020
is it 7030 I think it's probably
something in that range so let me give
you a count a counterargument to that
then so as I said I've been someone that
didn't think he could save because I
didn't have money and I just thought oh
you know but I could have saved in it
looking back now I know I could have
saved I could have saved a small amount
but I didn't see the value in saving
small numbers I didn't understand the
laws of compounding returns which we'll
definitely talk about I have also been
the person that
saves and I've also been the person who
thought they didn't need to save I've
been all three my Counterpoint to this
goes back to a story that I read from
your early years where two of your
friends died on a ski trip yeah and it
also links to something youve said in
your new book same as ever where you
speak about
how sometimes in life like hitting rock
bottom is the greatest incentive to
change our lives yeah so I put those two
things together and go that moment when
you were two of your friends died on a
ski trip that you were on when you were
younger it had an impact on your risk
appetite and your attitude towards and
therefore your attitude towards money
yep what what happened what happened so
I grew up skiing in in Le Tahoe
California and I was a competitive ski
racer right uh so all throughout my
childhood and teenage years I skied six
days a week 10 months a year all over
the world and it was great there about
12 of us on the squad Valley ski team we
had grown up together and we had spent
our entire lives together and when I was
17 this is in 2001 I was skiing with my
two two of my best friends brenon Allen
and and and Brian Richmond and we would
ski out of bounds which is illegal
you're not supposed to do it we would
duck under the rope that says do not
cross and we'd ski out of bounds because
that's where a lot of the good skiing is
and when we would do this it would spit
us out on this back country road where
we'd have to hitchhike back there's no
chairlift when you ski out of bounds you
have to hitchhike your way back so so we
did it one morning in February 2001 the
three of us did it and when we did it we
triggered a very small Avalanche and I I
remembered it so clearly like I can
still feel it 21 year 22 years later I
can still feel what is like it's the
weirdest sensation of that I've had in
my life because when you get hit by an
avalanche rather than pushing on the
snow to gain traction with your skis the
ground is pushing you so all of a sudden
you're skiing along and you got control
and all a sudden boom you have no
control everyore the the ground is
pushing you around probably similar to
what it feels like if you're standing on
the ground during an earthquake like the
ground's pushing you but it was a pretty
small Avalanche maybe came up to our
knees ended pretty quickly and we kind
of like literally high-fived about it at
the bottom and went about our day we get
back around to the the base Lodge we hit
shik back and Bren and Brian said they
wanted to do it again they wanted to ski
again and I said hey for whatever reason
I I I just didn't want to do it so I
said hey rather than hit cheing back why
don't you guys go do it again and I'll
drive my truck around and pick you up so
we said great we made our plans went our
separate ways they went skiing I went
back around to take my boots off and
jump in my truck and go pick them up 20
30 minutes later I go to pick them up at
the pickup spot and they weren't there
and I knew it only took us a minute to
ski down the hill so 20 minutes later I
knew like they they they weren't coming
I I was not worried I figured that they
had already hit hike home but so after
waiting for another 20 or 30 minutes I
just left and I went back to the lodge I
expected them to be there and they
weren't and I still didn't really worry
like we didn't have cell phones back
then and people were just comfortable
being out of touch if you didn't know
where your your buddy was like wasn't
that that wasn't that big a deal so we
went about the day I I started worrying
a little bit I remember I stopped at
Brendan's house and expected him to be
there and he wasn't there either and I
remember calling and leaving a message
on his voicemail and I remember ending
the voicemail by saying I hope you're
okay man those are my last words I
remember that very clearly the day went
on and I think at about 4 or 5:00
Brian's mom called me and she said Brian
never showed up for work today do you
know where he is
and I told her what happened I said we
skied the backside of squa where we'd
hit Chik back I was going to pick them
up but they never showed up and I
haven't seen them since and I also
remember so clearly Brian's mom saying
oh my God and hanging up the phone and
that was so like so it's then we started
getting worried we called the police the
police didn't take it very seriously
because they thought ah they're out at a
party they ran off with a girl for the
night like they weren't worried but we
finally got search and rescue involved
and Rescuers of probe poles frowned
Brenan and Brian buried under 6 ft of
snow and they were they had been killed
from a massive Avalanche and so look I
think virtually everyone listening to
this I'm sure you to have lost somebody
close to you somebody that you love so I
know the experience was not unique in
that way but it was the first time that
I had experienced loss and it was the
first bad thing that had ever happened
to me in my life so it had a big impact
on me and there were a lot of takeaways
I think at the time I didn't have the
cognitive tools to piece together what
happened or to learn about what happened
like have any sort of takeaways but as I
got older and thought about it and
looking back I put together all these
like realizations of what that did to me
how it changed me and what were some of
the lessons from it too one that I talk
about in the book that I think about all
the time is my decision to not go with
them on a second run was this completely
brainless decision I put no thought into
that decision it was not a cost benefit
analysis I didn't think through it but
it's the most important decision I've
ever made in my life 100% chance if I
was with them I would have died and I
had skied literally thousands of runs
with Brendan and Brian how many times
did I deny a second run with them or say
you guys keep going I'm going to go in
almost never the one time I did it saved
my entire life and so that you really
realize that the world hangs by a thread
everybody thinks like oh you're going to
put a lot of thought into your big
decisions to make sure that you're
successful in life where you go to
college what your career is going to be
who you marry that's all great but the
world hangs by a thread and there are
tiny little no nothing decisions maybe
that you made today of maybe it was when
to cross the street maybe it was when to
leave to get in your car that can
utterly change the course of your life
and so when once you accept that of how
much the world hangs by a thread I think
you become much more humble with your
willingness to make forecasts about the
future what the economy is going to do
who's going to win the election what's
going to happen in my life my career my
family's life we have no clue we have no
idea because all we can think about are
the big decisions we cannot piece
together the chaos theory of I got in my
car at the at the wrong time I met the
wrong person or I met the right person
or you know I I decided not to take a
second run we cannot forecast the impact
of those things and so that had a big
impact on me too of just who are we to
fool ourselves that we can predict the
next recession that we can predict where
our careers are going to be in 10 years
that we can predict how long our
marriage is going to last that we can
predict how long we're going to live we
can't nobody can because we can't
predict how crazy these tiny events can
turn into and this comes right back to
investing doesn't it
because most people that consider
themselves to be investors whether
that's just putting a couple of quid
into crypto or something else engage in
the idea that they can predict the
future yeah um and this is where it
appears that most money is lost I mean
think about the biggest risk to the US
economy over the last two generations Co
mean that's one of them the others would
be Pearl Harbor okay 911 Co and maybe uh
Lan Brothers couldn't find a buyer in
2008 which sparked the financial crisis
of 2008 those are the biggest Risk by
far and the common denominator of every
one of those stories is that nobody saw
them coming they were not in any
newspaper before they happened they were
not in any economic Outlook nobody was
going on TV warning you that this was
coming the common denominator of those
is that they did all of their damage in
two seconds and that would be the case
going forward you can guarantee that the
biggest news story and the biggest risk
over the next year or the next 10 years
of our life whatever it is is something
that nobody's talking about today that
you and I have can't even fathom because
it's always been like that there's never
been a time when the biggest news story
was
foreseeable and it's all and it'll be
like that going forward so that's
another just like embracing how fragile
the world is there's a great quote from
a financial adviser who I really admire
Nam Carl Richards and he says risk is
what's left over when you think you've
thought of everything
H you can go out of your way to think
about all of the risks that are in your
life and like great and like how you're
going to prevent them great that's a
good thing to do when you're done with
that exercise what's left over that
you're not thinking about is what risk
actually is it's like by definition we
can never plan or even imagine what the
biggest risks in our lives are going to
be you say that in same as ever you say
I think the the chapter title is risk is
the things you can't see or something
risk is what you don't see risk is what
you don't see that was a little bit
terrifying and it's true and I think I
think sometime you can phrase it as
terrifying it's also kind of relieving
that like why are you going to put so
much effort into trying to predict what
the stock market's going to do next what
the econom is going to do next why are
you building a forecasting model to
figure out what the econom is going to
do over the next 10 years when you look
at the last 10 or 20 years how could you
ever predict 911 or Co and even look
like something like Co there's like a
2015 Bill Gates Ted Talk where he talks
about the biggest risk to society is a
viral pandemic so it's not that nobody
saw that thing coming but the specifics
of when it's going to happen how bad
it's going to be is it just going to
shut down the economy for a week or two
years that is completely impossible but
there's also lots of other TED Talks
that say everything's going to be great
of course of course there's proba
there's a lot more so on balance the
world had no idea I think on balance the
world breaks once per decade not exactly
once per de but on average once per
decade everything that you thought about
risk and uncertainty and stability goes
to [__] so how do I prepare if risk if
risk is what I don't see how do I
prepare there's another great quote from
Nasim talad that I like where he says
invest in preparedness not in prediction
so rather than going out of your way to
be like here's what I think is going to
happen in crypto here's what I think is
going to happen in the stock market just
make sure that you have a big enough
buffer in your finances cash liquidity
being scared of debt so that no matter
what happens you're you at least have a
Fighting Chance of enduring it and make
through one thing I've I've often
thought about is that you should have
enough cash in your investing portfolio
the amount of cash you should have
should feel like it's too much it should
feel it should make you winse a little
bit because if you only have enough cash
to put up with the risk that you can
Envision and the risk that you can
foresee you're going to miss a surprise
every single time every single surprise
is going to be a surprise to you but if
you feel like you have too much cash
then at least you have a Fighting Chance
of putting up with the 911 the co the
Harbor whatever it might be so when
people look at my asset allocation my
investments a lot of people look at it
and say you seem really conservative why
do you have this much cash what are you
saving for and my answer is always I
don't know I have no idea what I'm
saving for who are we to assume that we
can predict the risks that are going to
be in our own personal lives and
throughout the broader World nobody can
do it the only way to prepare for it is
to have what feels like too much safety
what is your capital strategy how do you
invest your money um this is you know
this is the thing people want to know
most about you I keep it as painfully
simple as I possibly can so literally my
entire net worth is cash a house and
index funds and some shares of Marquel
where I'm on the board of directors and
that's it there's nothing else my entire
I can summarize everything so easily and
so cleanly and truly that's it and it's
not even like I have 20 bank accounts I
I have one bank account one brokerage
account like in a house and that's it so
simple why why index funds you're the
reason I your Capital allocation
strategy is almost identical to mine I
want to talk about the house thing as
well but um after reading your book I
stopped trying to pick stocks yeah and I
invested all of my available Capital
into index funds outside of investing it
in starting companies so I'm a
shareholder in I don't know 50 60 70
companies I all my other available
capital is invested in index funds and
then I have a very long-standing
position in ethereum which I've held for
like six years or something which has
done me very well yeah that is it and
the ethereum investment is also based on
the fact that I run a software business
that is in blockchain and I could see
that developers are building on top of
ethereum more than any other blockchain
so that Insight was really beneficial to
me and six years so even with the big
fall of the last two years you're still
up a lot yeah I I think your book taught
me that successful investing is when you
lose the pass to your investment account
yes that's exactly it I don't actually
think you said that in there but that's
like when I lose the password to my
investment account I'm so proud of
myself yeah because it means I haven't
checked it in
forever and so it was funny because you
were coming today I thought oh yeah well
I have all this money in these index
funds I'll check it and I thought [__] I
don't know the password good that's why
you're going to do okay the reason I do
this what's important is that I am not
one of the people who says nobody can
beat the market so therefore use index
funds that's not what I believe I think
there I think it's extremely hard to
beat the market and very few people will
do it but I think there are really smart
people who can do it and people who I
know who I could invest with the reason
I don't is not because I don't believe
it can be done it's because the variable
that I want to maximize for in my
investments is endurance if I can just
earn average returns for an above
average period of time it's going to
lead to amount of success that will
literally put you in the top 5% of
investors my parents are a great example
of this my parents are smart people but
they really they have no Financial
background and they like minimal
financial interest I would say and but
they have dollar cost average into index
funds for going on 40 years now and
literally if you look at the returns
they've never sold anything ever and
they'd probably be in the top 3% of
professional investors what is for
anyone that doesn't know what is dollar
cost averaging and what is an index fund
dollar cost averaging means you buy the
same dollar amount of Investments every
single month come hell or high water
doesn't matter what the stock market's
doing recession boom bust you say I'm
going to put $100 or whatever it is in
the stock mark on the first of every
month now most people who like have a
401k at work are doing this whether they
know it or not they have $100 or
whatever removed from every paycheck and
it goes into the funds that they own and
they don't have to do anything whether
you know it or not you're actually doing
it the contrast to that would say I'm G
to buy and sell based off of how I feel
in the stock market I wake up I watch
CNBC I decided to sell and I'm going to
put it back in when I feel better about
the market it's the contrast to that an
index fund is just a single fund that
owns hundreds or or thousands of stocks
within it and if it's diverse enough if
it's big enough really what you're doing
is you're owning a slice of the global
economy which is how I think about it
it's thousands of individual stocks in
there Tesla Apple whatever it would be
but really what you're doing is you're
owning a slice of capitalism if I was
your son and I said Dad prove to me that
that's a better long-term wealth
creation strategy than buying crypto or
buying companies that I use or like how
would you explain that to your to your
kid your ability to do well over the
next one year or 5 years is going to
have no role whatsoever on your lifetime
ability to generate wealth all that's
going to matter is not what are the best
returns you can earn all that matters
are is what are the returns that you can
sustain for the longest period of time
all that matters is your endurance it
doesn't matter if you can double your
money this year or even double your
money again the next year all that
matters is can you stick and keep it
going for 50 years that's where
compounding comes from prove it all
because the formula for compounding is
returns to the power of time
that's not quite it but like more or
less that's it so in that equation if
you understand the math all of the heavy
lifting comes from the exponent prove it
because that's how exponential growth
works that's how it works it's literally
exponential give me a case study where
someone has followed that strategy and
done well okay here's one way to explain
it that I use in the book 99% of Warren
Buffett's net worth was accumulated
after his 60th
birthday after he turned 60 years old
99% of his wealth Jesus has been
accumulated after that period because
the longer do you hold that for the
crazier the numbers get when he was 60 I
think he was worth about $3 billion lot
of money he's a multi-billionaire but
now that he's 90 he's worth over hundred
billion and he's given like a 100
billion away to charity so if he didn't
do that he'd be worth he'd go from three
billion to 200 billion since he's been
60 because the numbers just get crazier
at that point he's worth a hundred
billion dollar so if his if his Market
if his net worth goes up 10% in one year
he makes $1 billion which is three times
that he was worth when he was 60 so
that's when you look at somebody like
Buffett is he a great investor is he a
great stock picker of course but the
real secret to his success is that he's
been a good investor for 80 years and if
he had retired at age 60 or at age 50
nobody would have ever heard of him he
would have been like one of the other
multi-billionaires who lives in Florida
and plays golf and like you've never
heard of him the reason he use a
household name is because he's been
doing this non-stop since he's since
he's been 11 years old and he's never
stopped it's just the endurance that's
made him so wealthy not necessarily the
annual returns patience it's a difficult
thing it also reminds me of the story
that you talk about in the introduction
of your book about the janitor Ronald
James Reed yeah who when he died in 2014
age 92 had a net worth of over 8
million and he was a janitor how did he
do that he took what very little money
he could save from his job as a janitor
mopping floors at the gas station he put
it in stocks and he left it alone for 70
years and that's it that's all you need
that's all you need to do if you have
endurance in your investing and you can
keep it going for years or decades you
don't need to be a genius stock picker
and not only you do not need to do it if
you have endurance you're going to beat
literally 97 or 99% of the genius stock
Pickers and what's so interesting about
it is like picking the right stocks is
hard it's supposed to be hard like
there's no world in which everybody who
tries to beat the market is going to do
it of course it's hard just like being
an NBA player is hard and but having
endurance is like largely in your
control
it's so much easier to just be patient
than it is to pick the right stocks
every single day now I think some people
nature nurture some people like probably
Ronald Reed and my parents Ju Just
understand it naturally it's not hard
for them to be patient but do like there
are professional investors who work 80
hours a week for 30 years to try to beat
the market and they can't do it not only
some that that explains like most of
them and even the ones who can do it are
maybe going to beat the market by half a
percent per year 1% per year but if you
can have Endor
that is that's a bigger benefit than you
can have by even being like a very
successful stock picker like somebody
who outperforms the market by one
percentage Point per year and they can
do that for 10 years that's amazing
that's like Mount Rushmore investor but
somebody who earns average returns and
does it for 20 years is going to have
way more money you do it for 30 years
you're going to be Filthy Rich you be
like Ronald Reed you can be a janitor
who leaves 8 million to charity when you
die but so in the case of Ronald Reed do
you not look at him a little bit and go
listen bro if you had eight or9 million
in the bank you should have been living
it up see this is one I I do kind of
regret that in the book that I'm I kind
of I didn't say it explicitly but I kind
of make him out to be a role model and I
don't think that's the case he he's not
my role model I think he's a fascinating
story of somebody who became Rich
despite not having any of the pedigree
or any of the skills that you are
normally associated with wealthy people
but you're right that he lived in a a a
s wed housing and he worked as a janitor
that's not my goal so I I I want to live
a nice life I want to be independent but
he's the most extreme example that you
can come up with and I I I wish I had
stated that more clearly in the book A
lot of people have this conversation
around pensions and in the UK we we can
pay money from our salary into our
pension but I think a lot of people
think gosh when I'm 60 when I'm 65 I
want to be rich I want to be rich when
I'm 25 yeah and I can go to Vegas and
you know ball out and buy nice things
and have great experiences not when I'm
65 yeah no I think that's true I think
there are a lot of people a lot of
financial advisers will say that one of
the hardest things they do as an adviser
is getting their clients to spend money
because they've been so conditioned to
save save save save save that when they
finally retire at 65 they don't know how
to spend they have no clue how to spend
money there's a great uh author I think
you've had him on your show RIT Siti who
talks about this a lot like how you like
you need to learn how to live a a rich
life and figure out what that is for you
for some people like for me it's just
like my my happy state is like sitting
on the couch in sweatpants reading a
book going for a walk with my wife
that's that's that's my rich life that I
love doing and to do that I need to be
independent and autonomous so I can do
that all day long I can do that on a
Wednesday afternoon rid talks a lot
about like maybe your rich life I think
for him it's flying first class and
wearing nice clothes and he talks about
like he drives I think like a beat up
Honda but he flies first class and he
dresses very nicely so you just have to
figure out what is the little thing
that's going to make you happy and I
think a lot of people's problem is that
Society tells you what you're supposed
to do to be happy you're supposed to
have a nice car you're supposed to have
a big house supposed to wear nice
clothes that's what Society tells you to
do and for some people that might be the
case for other people like me I think it
it's not that's that that would not ever
make me happy what does make me happy is
Independence so I can just do these
little quirky things that I like to do
so I think you just have to figure out
the little things that make you happy
rather than just being forced by Society
into what they want you to do
knowing when enough is enough this was
one of
the most interesting things that I think
really rang true to me was how do I know
in my life when enough is enough I've
definitely been a victim to that
external narrative that I need to have
these things in my life to be a happy
person but how does one go about knowing
when enough is enough I think back to
the story of my father he just woke up
one day and it was obvious that he would
he had been doing what he did for long
enough and it was he had felt like he
had enough and whatnot and he and he
broke away from it I
think for for a lot of people it's just
I one thing that's important about the
concept of having enough in Independence
is that when most people even if they
are independent they wake up every
morning what they want to do is go to
work one of one of the big problems with
the fire movement the financial
Independence retire early movement where
people are like they're going to be a
Super Saver and then retire at age 31
whatever it' be so many of those people
who actually did that and retired at age
31 they once they retired after about
two weeks they were bored out of their
mind and if they did it for six months
they were clinically depressed cuz for
most people you want to be productive
you want to keep doing it so having
enough doesn't necessarily mean that
you're going to stop working it just
means you're going to keep doing only
the work that you want to do there's a
really interesting question that Patrick
oesi asked a lot of people uh in in his
office he says if you won a billion
dollars in the lottery but you had to
stay at this job you're a billionaire
but you can't quit what did this company
would you want to do and what would you
get rid of and virtually everyone has an
answer for that question they say oh if
I didn't need the money but I have to
stay I would love to work on this
project I love working on this thing
this that and the other is all [__]
to me so like in any job there's going
to be something that you want to do
there's going to be some project there's
going to be some position or or or maybe
it's like being an artist whatever it
would be it's not that you stop working
it's that when you have enough you get
to pick and choose which of those things
you're going to end up doing it's often
too late in our lives when we realize
the cost that we've paid for enough
never being enough you know it could
could be family it could be Health
whatever um I always reflect on the with
Brony we wasn't it who interviewed
people on their deathbeds and found out
that the biggest regret of the dying was
not living a life true to themselves
working too much Etc but that's on your
deathbed there's nothing you can do at
that point right and I think a lot about
this like what am I going to regret yes
I think about that too I think this is
this is pretty morbid to think about but
I think about if I were on my deathbed
tomorrow would I regret working hard and
saving a lot of money and my answer is
absolutely not it would give me so much
pleasure to know that my wife and my
young kids are going to be fine and the
opposite of that I cannot fathom being
on my deathbed and looking at my wife
and my 8-year-old son and my
four-year-old daughter and thinking you
guys are screwed that would that that
would that would be the biggest regret I
can fathom so I think a lot of people
would look at someone with a high
savings rate like me and would assume
that I'm going to regret it on my
deathbed and who knows but I I I have to
think it would actually be the opposite
what makes me gives me so much happiness
and pleasure is taking care of my family
and if I were to go tomorrow I wouldn't
regret for one second the car that I
didn't buy the big house I didn't buy
the nice clothes I didn't buy not for a
second would I regret not doing those
it's a really good frame to think there
isn't it about our financial decision-
making and you know a lot of people like
saving up to buy a lot of nonsense
that's going to depreciate and would you
rather have a little Nest Egg left over
for the ones you love or buy that
Lamborghini there's another great book
called die with zero which basically the
title is self-explanatory and one of the
concepts is even if you want to give
money away way to your family don't wait
until you die don't make your kids wait
or like hope you're going to die so they
can get their inheritance give it to
them when it really matters which for
most people is in their 30s and 40s if
you wait until you die at age 90 and
your kids are 60 and then they get your
money like what's the purpose of that
give it to them when they need it when
they're raising kids and whatnot that's
when they need your money I I I really
like that concept I think about that
with my own kids the counter point to
that is though if I just give my kids
money then like the chth quote
they might lose it quick think about
that especially as you know someone that
has a lot of cash they could give I
think about this because at some point
I'm G to have kids and they're going to
Daddy I want to do a driving lesson or
they're going to be 18 and go off to
University or whatever God I hope they
don't go to university um and they're
going to say like I've got nowhere to
live or I found this nice apartment dad
and in those moments do I make the
decision to pay for it because I can or
withhold it because they need to learn
the hard way I have this yeah I'd call
it an argument with my girlfriend
where I say babe listen when we have
kids they're going to sit an economy and
she's like absolutely not yeah and I'm
like no babe when they get okay we made
a deal I think we got to about when
they're 12 years old I'm going to put
them in economy so they can learn for
themselves the value of things see we we
made this mistake I don't think I've
ever talked about this but it was about
a year ago we flew my son who was me I
guess he was seven at the time we flew
first class and we explained to him that
this was not normal this was not going
to be the way it is as soon as as he did
it he went home he told all of our
neighbors told all of his friends told
everybody at school and that was when my
I like can't can't do this never again
you see how quickly somebody can be
spoiled or use that to try to show other
people that they are superior to them
that's when it was like no no we can't
ever do this ever again and you moved
his expectations in a way absolutely I
didn't fly first class till I was 35 and
he did it at 7 and so that my when I
first did it at 35 I remember feeling a
I earned this I worked for this and Al
felt so special to me because I'd flown
coach 9,000 times before that so it felt
amazing and so that's I I I think about
that a lot there's a great quote from
Charlie Munger where one of his rich
friends says Charlie if I give my kids
all of my money is that going to ruin
their ambition and Charlie says of
course it will but you have to do it
anyways and the guy says why and Charlie
says because if you don't your kids will
hate you and I think that's that too is
like lots of Charlie Monger quotes are
are framed as black and white they're
extreme but I think that's probably like
80% true really that it's it's maybe 70%
true that if you are a wealthy person
and I'm not talking billionaires if you
just have a moderate amount of wealth
that you might pass along to your kids
someday that your two options are kind
of at least to some extent hurt their
ambition or risk some level of strife
and it's always child dependent like I
always make the example that if
18-year-old Bill Gates or Mark
Zuckerberg or Elon Musk inherited a
billion dollars would have made any
difference to their ambition they would
have they would not have slowed them
down by one second but most people
including myself it would have like I
was driven by fear of not making it
which is what most people are I was I
was scared shitless that I was not going
to find the right career that I wasn't
going to make it and that's what drove
me some people don't need that but I
think it's very rare I think the huge
majority of people if you give them an
easy life they will take it and embrace
it with both hands making money and
keeping money require two different
skills you you've spoken about a few of
the skills that are required for making
money the one that really stuck out to
me that you've discussed so far is this
idea of endurance patience regardless of
what's happening in the markets
regardless of the volatility lose your
password and sit on your hands just on
that point as well I remember reading
somewhere it might have even been your
book you know it's so crazy because the
things that I know about money I can't
remember where I've got them from but
most of them came from this book like
most of the principles came from this
book and one of the things that I read
was that Warren Buffett would go like
five years without allocating capital
and this where he said the hardest thing
to be a great investor is to be able to
sit on your hands and do nothing sit on
your ass and do nothing that's it that's
that's AER quote and that's what they're
doing right now right now Berkshire
hathway which is Warren Buffett's
company has like $150 billion dollar of
cash right now and that's their entire
uh 60-year history of Warren Buffett and
Brookshire hathway is build up a
shitload of cash wait 10 years for an
opportunity deploy it all and then go
back to waiting and building up cash
crazy and that's that's that's how they
done it good opportunities are rare of
course they are they should be rare it
shouldn't be that anybody can just open
up their stock account and find the
opportunity of a lifetime what are the
gonna come once a decade what are the
other skills then endurance patience to
create to get money for the for the
ordinary person endurance and patience
is 99% of what you need as an investor
because the opportunities there to
invest in a lowcost Index Fund are
available for everybody and you can do
that from your phone like you do it from
your phone open up a Robinhood account
buy some index funds anybody can do that
and so that and but that was not always
the case it used to be 20 years ago that
the only people who could invest were
people who had a lot of money and could
afford a broker and had connection to a
broker and you yet to like make a phone
call make a phone call you had to know a
guy and even then you were going to pay
a ridiculous fee to that person for do
pieces of paper and all kinds it was a
joke and that's 20 years ago it's not
that long ago so I think like people
aren't grateful enough or appreciative
enough of how much things have changed
that open up those opportunities for
everybody you talk about the skill of
keeping money which is different from
the skill of getting money is predicated
on Survival Financial survival and just
putting up with all the unpredictable
nonsense that's going to happen between
now and the end of your life and we
talked earlier about the surprises Pearl
Harbor 9911 all these big surprises just
it's just your ability to endure things
like that that's going to be literally
90% of your financial success and your
investing success so gaining money is
like being an optimist and taking a risk
like being optimistic about yourself
swinging for the fences you need that to
get rich staying rich is is like the
exact opposite you need a level of being
conservative you need to be scared you
need to be like acknowledge of all the
unknown risks that are in front of us
and have a financial allocation and a
mindset that's going to allow you to
endure them and survive them financially
you need both of those skills at the
same time so well your kid is 20 years
old he's broke do you tell him to go and
take huge outsized risks he's not got a
family he's not got a mortgage he's not
got a dog what advice do you give him at
that age to create wealth I would
actually say I think this is a little
counterintuitive that when somebody is
Young you you think you would say you
got 50 years in front of you swing for
the fences go for it it's also when your
life is the most fragile it's when
you're most likely to be laid off most
likely to change your career most likely
to break up or get divorced whatever it
would be and so for that you need quite
a bit of financial flexibility just cash
and liquidity so once you had some level
built up whatever the level might be for
a different person then like do
something crazy I also think for careers
some of the best career advice that's
maybe not Universal but when you
graduate college and you're looking at
your career don't take the safe job
which is usually like the big company
the blue chick company go for the weird
company why go for something crazy
because when you're older when you're 40
and you have two kids and a mortgage
you're not going to want to take the
weird job that's when you want the
stability that's when you're probably
going to want the job that's has good
benefits and a stable paycheck cuz you
need that when you're 22 and you're not
tied down by anything
don't go work for Goldman Sachs or apple
or deoe or something like that go for
the weird startup where you like you're
you're going to learn something
completely different linked to that
point is in the weird startup you're
going to be so close to the failure and
failure is the knowledge you're going to
learn so much much and there's so many
people who take the blue chip the safe
job out of college and it puts them on a
very predictable track you're going to
be an analyst for two years and then if
you're good you'll get promoted to
senior analyst and then you'll get
promoted to associate it's like very
stable and linear and that's the like
it's you're capping all of your upside
where if you go for the weird company
you're either going to do one of two
things it's either going to fail and
you're going to learn a lot from that or
it's going to take off and you're going
to learn a lot from that and then maybe
when you're 40 after going through all
that then you want the stable job at the
big company it's interesting I was
thinking as you're speaking that the
proximity from your desk and the
CEOs probably needs to widen over time
yes I think I think that's that's true
yeah absolutely and mo most people I
think if they if you do it the other way
around or most people would never do it
the other around if you start your
career in the stable company you're
probably never going to leave you're
going to get addicted to the nice
paycheck the stable benefits whatnot and
you're never going to take a risk and do
anything else maybe that's okay maybe
for some people's personalities that's
exactly what they want but I think there
is a higher level of regret for people
that start in a safe company and then
they get the golden handcuffs they can't
leave and by the time they're 40 and
they realize that they wanted to work at
the crazy company they can't because
they got a mortgage and two kids and
they're saving for retirement and they
can't take the risk at that level of
their life you introduced this concept
of
tales long tales and this also changed
my life changed my investment strategy I
should probably say you talk about the
example of venture capital where for
every 50 Investments That Venture
capitalists make statistically half of
them will completely fail 10 will do
okay and one or two will make huge
profits that drive 100% of the funds
returns yeah this is a lesson about
investing in finance but it's also me a
lesson about life it's always life yeah
it applies to everything Tales where
just a couple of things that happen
explain 90 or 99% of what matters it's
always the case you see it in business
where you take in the United States
there are you know thousands of public
companies that you can buy stock in but
the huge majority of the value in the US
Stock Market is in like 10 companies
Apple Tesa Microsoft so even though you
have thousands of companies 10 of them
are the ones that really matter and are
going to drive all of the r turns over
time so why you just buy those 10
because nobody knows what they're going
to be at least in hindsight that that
that's the argument for owning a
thousand of them is that you know that
the 10 that are going to be the next big
ones are going to be in there all of
this is a case for humility this is
honestly what I took away from your book
you're expecting to walk away with tips
all these tips these tricks these
special ways to make more money than
everybody what I came away with is this
one important lesson that I've never
been able to unsee which is I don't know
I I think that's great and that back to
I wrote this book for myself that's been
the biggest lesson for me is not only do
I know but nobody else knows either
everyone everyone else is bullshitting
their way through the investing Market
too they don't know either I'm in this
crypto chat where one of my friends I
won't disparage him one of my friends
he's the guy in the chat that's always
posting the forecast graphs you know
those ones where they kind of like the
little logger graphs where they forecast
where the stock or the crypto where they
think it's going to go right and it's
always it's always up and to the right
um and it's kind of like male horoscopes
I heard someone say that that that's
such a great yeah no I think that's I
think what's closest to investing is
something like the horoscope or even if
you know it's [__] you want to read
it why because it's comforting what a
lot of people want out of their
investing forecasts or whatever it is is
they want to reduce the uncertainty
that's giving them stress because
everyone I think intuitively knows that
the future in front of us is unknown and
it's unknowable but that hurts and so if
it hurts you try to reduce that stress
by finding someone who says I do know
what's going to happen you know what
this applies as well is I read Amazon's
Jeff Bezos who's the CEO and founder of
Amazon his shareholder letter where he
says we have to be the best place in the
world to fail um we swing for the fences
10 times and for every 10 swings nine of
them are in the Amazon graveyard he's
talking there about a9.com which nobody
knows cuz failed the fir phone which
nobody knows but the one in 10 pay for
the entirety of the graveyard the one in
one 10 is going to be AWS which make 70
billion this year right he talked about
that when the fir phone from Amazon
which if you don't know Amazon built a
cell phone it's called the fir phone and
it was a joke it was a disaster it was a
massive flop and he was doing like an
analyst call and this analyst talked
about like hey the Fire Phone flopped
like what happened there and bezo said
if you think that was a big failure just
wait you've seen nothing yet and like
that's why Amazon's successful they're
willing to try a thousand things with
the idea that they know 990 of them are
going to fail but the 10 that work are
going to be massive and you can fail
well and have the mentality to fail and
the financial backing to be able to fail
like make sure your bets are not that
big and you can just keep taking little
risks all the time the optionality that
you get from that like the odds that one
or two of those are going to explode are
huge it's massive I mean it's no
different than how do you win the
lottery you have to buy thousands and
thousands or millions of tickets if you
buy billions of tickets you'll probably
win the lottery it's probably not going
to pay off because it doesn't work like
that but it's the same concept like if
you if you if you take enough swings at
bat one of them is going to hit
eventually and this is also
a reason why some companies look
Innovative they look like their Geniuses
but in fact their failure rate is
massive massive there's a story at at at
Netflix several years ago where there
was uh a report to the CEO and the and
the report was all of the new movies
that we've come out that that we've that
we've produced have been successful and
whoever presented that probably thought
this is great this is what you want hear
and the CEO said that's terrible that
means we're not taking enough risks if
every movie that we release is a hit
we're not taking risks like you want
your failure rate to be at least some
that that's when you know you're at
least trying something new it's the same
like if you're managing uh a hotel you
don't want every room to be sold out
because that means you're not pricing
high enough you know you're doing a good
job when you have 10 empty rooms that's
when you know you're pricing the other
rooms at a high enough rate so there's
always going to be like some level of
what looks like failure that you need
and if you don't have it you're not
taking a big enough risk Daniel X sat
here and he said the same thing he goes
one of the most important metrics that I
think about at Spotify is our mistake
rate yeah and people will think okay so
he wants to limit mistakes very much the
opposite he wants to make sure that the
company maintains that sort of startup
mentality and they increase their rate
of mistakes and this brings me to
something which I kind of hit me like a
truck um in your new book same as ever
which was this idea that we need to keep
running now there were areas in my
professional life where I've been
successful poas is doing well I think
doing pretty well and I had a I had a
car Journey with Jima who's through the
wall who you met and we last time we
came to well I'm in the front seat of
the car and I go Jima do you know what
our biggest um our biggest threat is now
complacency when people get successful
they play defense to their detriment um
they don't play offense as much as they
need to to keep up with the rate of
change in the world and then a young
Scrappy agile incumbent who has a high
risk appetite will take their cheese
right and your chapter on keep running
there's two quotes that I really pulled
out chapter is called keep running and
the quot two quotes that I pulled out
were competitive advantages tend to be
shortlived often because their success
plants the seeds of their own decline
one more quote it's easy to overlook how
many forces pull you away from your
competitive Advantage once you have one
specifically because you have one
success has its own gravity that's right
and the the the the biggest source of
gravity there is laziness the reason
you're successful is because you work so
hard to get to where you were and now
that you feel like you've made it now
that you feel like you're on the top of
the mountain top you get lazy and that's
so many companies fall for that so many
careers fall for that there's a great
story from Jerry Seinfeld where he said
that one of the reasons that he quit the
show when it was still going gang
Busters is because he could start to
sense that what made the show successful
was starting to be was starting to go
away he said and part of the reason is
was because he got so famous when he was
not that famous he could go sit in a
coffee shop and watch how people ordered
their coffee and make a joke out of it
he was observing how Society worked once
he got very famous he couldn't do that
anymore he was too famous to go sit in a
deli and watch how people order their
sandwiches he couldn't do it so
therefore he didn't have a lot of the
source material that he had before and
so he was like look what made me so
funny and the show so successful I can't
do anymore so like red alert let's pull
the plug before it gets really bad here
so that's like a very specific example
but what he realized that what made him
successful was gone and a lot of a lot
of CEOs will will have this problem too
where what made them successful was that
they were a scrappy startup founder and
they were very good at building a
product but now that the company is big
and successful they also need to be an
HR Manager they need to be a finance
specialist they need to be a marketer
they need to be all these other things
and therefore their time is pulled away
from what they're actually good at which
was building a product a good example of
this if I can say it was Travis kenck of
uber the founder of uber probably nobody
in the world was better at scaling a
company like uber than he than he was
and there were a few people who were
worse at managing a big company than he
was so it's like what made Uber
successful is what pulled him away from
being a successful manager at that he
was very good at one thing he was the
best in the world at that one thing but
you shouldn't think that like it's going
to last during when another phase of the
company's life my person I consider a
mentor and a friend of mine been a
long-term friend of mine a guy called
Shaquille Khan he was one of the very
first investors in shop in Spotify um
new Daniel the founder from the very
Beginnings he said to me um a piece of
advice that stayed with me and I've also
imparted on other people at a time when
I'd left my company I was now
financially successful um financially
free by all regards and and I called him
after leaving my company and I said D I
said Shaq what should I do now with my
life he said to me Stephen the reason
you were successful was because you were
hungry you need to realize that you're
no longer hungry for the same reasons
and what he told me to do was the
hardest [__] thing I've ever done in
my life which was nothing he said spend
a year don't rush back into starting the
same business again because he said to
me the reason why you were so
unbelievably disciplined and would go to
the office seven days a week was because
you were like an insecure kid that was
like fighting to survive that's gone now
so sit on your hands for a year do
absolutely nothing and get inspired
again get get hungry again about
something new um because my Temptation
was just to run back in and start a big
marketing business again or whatever
yeah I that's kind of what you're you're
speaking of as well is that like the
need to understand that our motivations
evolve and change over time and the
thing that made us successful might not
be the thing that makes us successful
again in a new Venture I think there are
some people who really can keep it going
some people who do keep running like
Elon [__] perfect example guy worth a
quarter of a trillion dollars still
works 100 hours a week so there are
those people who exist but I think for a
lot of people this should not be a scary
thing the fact that after you've made it
and have some success and some some
wealth that you're not as hungry as you
used to be that's fine just you just
have to accept it it gets dangerous when
people don't realize it and they they
are less hungry they're not as motivated
but they're still going to try to go
start a new business even though they
don't need it anymore and then they're
shocked when that business doesn't work
he said to me you need to take on a
moonshot and cuz he know he goes you you
did the first business you did well
whatever Etc he goes the thing that will
make you hungry and sufficiently
terrified is you now need to find a big
scary terrifying goal that's what Elon
did with Twitter yeah he'd already
become the richest man in the world and
he probably got bored a little bit and
he said I need to do something that's
crazy and that even for someone like me
is going to be an absolute stretch to
pull off crazy which is buying Twitter
and running into the ground I mean
there's no surprise that billionaires
will seem to start rocket companies yeah
I mean the reason that they are
successful is because they have that
complete swing for def fenses I mean
most people would quit full stop when
their net worth hit 10 million or less 3
million and so for someone to have a net
worth of 10 billion and to wake up and
say I'm going to keep going as hard as I
possibly can that's why they have that
level of success it's complete
insatiable Hunger for More I sat with a
billionaire when I was
20 going to say 24 years old and I sat
in his office and I thought okay this
could be really interesting I get to
meet this very successful person in
Manchester and I looked into his eyes
and said why are you doing this like you
have all this money and it became
completely apparent to me that it was
not about the money it was all about
competition I then went and met another
billionaire who was in Manchester runs
another big company Manchester everybody
knows the company and it was the same
thing with him it was the thing that had
got him to a billion was the thing that
was going to keep him going after a
billion yeah I mean there's there's a
chapter in my book about natural Maniacs
like people like wild Minds people the
kind of person like Elon Musk who has
that mindset to say you know when he was
30 years old or whatever he took on GM
Ford Chrysler and NASA when he was like
30 the kind of person who thinks that is
not the kind of person who's going to
say I have enough I'm going to put it
all in Muni bonds and go live on the
farm like it's not the person who thinks
they can do that and can pull that off
is the kind of person who's never going
to stop if Elon Must List till he's 97
he's going to be starting new rocket
companies for sure do you think he's
happy no absolutely none I think most
people in that situation the word that I
would use is tortured I think they wake
up every morning tortured at the
problems that they are aspiring to solve
that they haven't solved yet there's
almost no biography of a very successful
person like that of that level of
success that you would read their
biography and say that life sounds great
it's one of the things that hit me like
a train truck was those two billionaires
I met were just the most miserable
people absolutely and I met their their
one of their sons and they go dad is so
unhappy I remember him saying that to me
and just go [__] he's going to that
office every single day has a billion
dollars and his kids think he's like sad
there's this amazing story do you
remember uh
Myspace back in the day before before
Facebook and the guy who ran it his name
was Tom I forget his last name but when
you signed up for Myspace Tom was your
first follow he was the founder of
Myspace and every he followed everybody
and he sold Myspace I think to Qualicom
maybe no I'm sorry he sold he sold
Myspace to Viacom and uh did pretty well
let's say I'm guessing let's say he made
$50 million it's probably something in
in in in that range it's it's probably
nothing that's dramatic 500 was it he
sold the company for that much actually
don't but it was it was it was it was a
good but not extraordinary sum of money
and you can see his life on Instagram
it's not exaggeration he's like travels
around the world with his girlfriend
hiking in Bali it looks like at least
from Instagram he lives this amazing
life and then think about Mark
Zuckerberg who is like every year hauled
before Congress where he's like screamed
at for causing all of society's ills and
he has so much on his shoulders and
Facebook stock fell 70% last year
because everyone thinks it's going to
and like it looks like a very stressful
incredible amount of pressure on his
shoulders if you were to ask me which
one of those lives would I take would I
rather be someone with $50 million who
was traveling around the world hiking in
Bali with my wife or would I be wor a
hundred billion do and wake up every
morning scared shitless with so much
pressure on my shoulders for me it's
obvious I'd much rather be Tom than Mark
but that pressure is a drug in the sense
that when I say the pressure is a drug I
mean we know from motivation psychology
and I mean I think I saw on the back of
your your book yeah Daniel H pink y
Daniel pink told me that when people
aren't sufficiently challenged they lose
motivation and their level of challenge
kind of increases so to be engaged with
a task you need to um and you think of
this like game psychology the levels
need to get harder and harder for you to
be engaged that's why every game we play
it's not on level one over and over and
over again we need it to go to level two
crosswords get more difficult we stay
engaged do you not think that's the case
with like a big famous CEO know that
their engagement appetite their
challenge appetite just grows and that's
the only way they can stay engaged solve
bigger problems I think if you look at
someone like Bill Gates I think he had
figured out business and in 2000 he he
effectively quit Microsoft but he
immediately moved on to what I think was
in his mind a bigger problem which was
like how do I give this money away
effectively and how do I eradicate
malaria those kind of problems and so
even for someone like him who was able
to extract himself from the business
they' immediately move on to something
that I think in his mind was more
problematic and a bigger challenge so
there's never going to be a period where
someone like that were to say I've had
enough I'm just going to retire to read
books like that will never be the case
it's always going to be I think they're
addicted to the challenge is what it is
yeah and I think I I think I am I think
I think everybody is to some extent and
the mus and the gates those people are
extreme examples of it but every I think
everybody needs a minimum level of
stress in their life and the irony is
that we all kind of dream about like
what can I do to at the stress so I just
wake up in Nirvana every day and you
can't everyone needs to have some sort
of conflict Strife challenge stress in
their life and for I think for a lot of
people if they don't get it from real
places they just make up fake problems
in their life that's that's a big
problem with people for people who
richer people who have a lot of things
they will start worrying and stressing
about the most minute things because
they need that stress in their life on
that point as well just popping back to
we were talking about the complacency
the other thing that I think successful
people become a victim of is their own
correctness I think about that with me
like I've been right about several
decisions in a row so surely that
creates evidence that I'm probably right
again and that can be your downfall as
well or what a lot of it is is you were
right on this topic and then therefore
you assume that you're going to be right
on another topic and you didn't know the
role luck might have played you didn't
know what luck would play but let's say
you're a very successful investor and
then and they'll say you're like
massively successful a lot of those
people will think therefore I can also
be an effective politician
therefore I can also be an expert on Co
whatever it would be because they think
they're so smart in this area that they
must be smart in other areas a lot of
doctors have this problem with investing
where they think I'm a doctor I'm very
successful I got a PhD from a great
school therefore I can pick the stocks
because I'm a smart person and that
level of overconfidence is their undoing
can success I think your book the one of
the key things that stayed with me and I
didn't need to recap myself on was the
stories you told about people
that accurately predicted what was going
to happen in the stock market against
all conventional wisdom they all from
what I recall they went on to lose their
money eventually anyway a lot of them
yeah yeah what is that story you told in
your book there's a story about a guy
named Jesse Livermore who was back in
the 1920s he was the most successful
investor in the world and what's so
amazing about Jesse Livermore is that I
think four different occasions in his
life he became the equivalent of a
billionaire adjusted for inflation and
then went bankrupt four separate times
in his life so he was the person who was
like better at anyone in the world at
making money and had no skill whatsoever
at keeping money and that's someone who
like even when he became at one point he
was the richest man in the world and
rather than saying I have enough it's
enough he have said let's cap te bigger
bets let's swing even harder next time
it goes never enough and he eventually
the last time he went broke he
eventually ended up killing himself it's
the most amazing like just fascinating
life that you can imagine of someone who
is so good at making money but never
knew when to stop and it is actually the
more money he made the more risk he
wanted to take so it was always like his
I I think his outcome was always
predestined because there was never
going to be a moment like the Richer he
be the more successful he became the
higher the odds that he was going to
fail and I think there's some version of
that for a lot of people because it
because their success increases their
confidence more than their ability and
they don't even know that that's a
problem that you can't self diagnose
like if you're confident you think it's
earned and you think it's real and and
then because you're successful a lot of
people who when you were poorer or less
successful they would tell you you're
being an idiot you're wrong you're not
right about this but when you're rich
maybe because you employ them or because
they think that you're so smart even
when you say something stupid they might
go yeah maybe it's right go for it and
therefore you don't have people who are
telling you how overconfident you are
that again it comes down to humility
doesn't it a lot of it yeah and like I
think that's that's that's so much of it
and like and I think you have to go out
of your way sometimes for that humility
that when you have some level of success
in your life whatever that level is just
always remind yourself I think I
remember there was a quote that I think
it was um Roman Warriors that when they
would come home from a battle that they
won and they were in like the Parade of
you know like we won the battle and
we're going to go in the parade that
like we're we're the victors were so
great that they would have someone by
their side whispering in their ear
something something along the lines of
you're not that great
because they're in this parade where
they're glorious and like Victorious but
they need to someone to bring them back
down to earth and be like hey you're
just a you're just a dude you're just a
guy you're not that special you're very
fallible like make the like tame it down
they would actually hire people to do
that for them and I think if you look at
a lot of like the great entrepreneurs a
lot of the great investors they will
have some sort of partner with that
Charlie Munger is that to Warren Buffett
like when Warren Buffett comes up with
an idea a big part of Charlie munger's
job is to tell him when he's being an
idiot and to have someone like Warren
Buffett who will trust a person like
that and to have someone like Munger who
is willing to do something like that is
so critical just a quick Interruption
for a brand that is very close to us
here at the dire of a CEO who are
sponsoring this episode of this podcast
and that is British Airways if you're
like me and you love a good deal I think
you're going to want to hear about this
the British Airways business class sale
is in full swing and the potential
savings are enormous we're talking
saving Savings of up to ,000 on a return
business class flight to places like New
York Boston and Chicago plus you can
save even more on their incredible
packages to both the USA and to Europe
that includes those premium business
class flights and a luxury hotel stay
there's something different about flying
business with British Airways as I think
you guys will know if you've ever done
it it's not just the seat that converts
fully into a flat bed or the menu or the
fact that you can watch the dire of a
CEO on the inflat entertainment system
it's the Personal Touch the experts that
make you feel relaxed and at home in the
sky and here's the thing you've got
until the 13th of November so don't sit
on it head over to ba.com to find your
deal now quick one I discovered a
product which has changed my life called
ate sleep this product at sleep which
are a sponsor of this podcast has been a
revelation in my life because the eight
sleep pod cover which is basically a
fitted sheet that goes over your
mattress controls the temperature of
your bed throughout the night and it
follows Nature's natural Rhythm it
starts cool gets colder while you go
into different phases of sleep and then
heats up slightly as you wake up in the
morning which is effectively guiding you
to have a deeper more restorative sleep
I genuinely think of all the things that
we would include in health and fitness I
think sleep now is the the most
important factor the thing that I'm
thinking about most often every single
day when I wake up in the morning the
first thing I do is I check my sleep and
I use that information to determine how
to proceed in that day how hard to work
out how many meetings to have what I
need to cancel what time I need to get
to bed so to celebrate them being a new
podcast sponsor I always want to get a
discount for you guys and I've got one
go to 8sleep.com which is EIG ghts
sleep.com
slst and if you do that you'll save
$150 on the Pod cover that I have on my
bed the one I'm talking about grab your
pod cover send me a DM and let me know
how you get on confidence which comes
from success often really does create
blind spots and that's something I think
about so much like how do I stay aware
of those blind spots in my life that you
know the success I've had in various
areas has undeniably created and
honestly a lot of I just go just save
loads of money Steve because the day
you're wrong you don't want to go broke
I also think about that like whenever
the curtain comes down on my career I
want to make sure that I can say like
hey thank you for for for letting me
have this I'm so grateful for it but I
I've saved enough that like I'm ready to
pass a baton to someone else and that's
a form of humility too there's a quote
from Denzel Washington where he's
talking to Will Smith After Will Smith
slapped Chris Rock remember that whole
debacle after that show Denzel
Washington comes up to Will Smith and he
says will when you're at your highest
moment in your career that's when the
devil's going to get you and it's like
when when when you when your career is
so high and you're so famous you think
so highly of yourself that you can do
anything that's when you're going to get
yourself into
trouble what a powerful quote and I
think just paying attention to that
that's the natural humility that goes
into it and it's not false humility it's
not like oh I you know false humility is
like I I didn't do any of this I just
got lucky that's all false humility I
think real humility is like I built this
through hard work and I made some good
decisions but I'm just I'm just a guy
I'm as fallible as anybody else I think
that's it's that's not just important I
think that's critical to any amount of
sustainable success you taught me that
the price you pay to be wealthy is the
volatility you have to incur along the
way kind of how I think about it in my
head that's the cost of admission to
being to being wealthy and to to be to
any level of success is putting up with
an enduring unknowns and volatility and
Booms and busts and then other [__]
that you put up with in the investing
market and in your career and in your
relationships there's always a cost for
anything good in life there's a cost
that you have to pay like of course like
nothing's free like that but most of the
costs that you pay are not they don't
have a price tag that you can just
measure very cleanly like the cost of
doing well at investing is putting up
with volatility the cost of a successful
career might be long hours where you
were pulled away from your family the
cost of a relationship is like always
needing to sacrifice and compromise for
the other person nothing is ever free
and so much of the success in life is
just identifying what the cost is and
being willing to pay it because for all
of those things I just laid out
investing career relationships the cost
of admission is worth it putting up with
the volatility is worth it over time
because if you can put put up with the
stock market falling 30% if you could
just say ah it's not that big a deal I'm
just going to hold tight 10 years from
now the cost is well worth doing that be
rich if you can put up with the
compromise that takes to have a
successful relationship by and large
that's going to be a cost that's worth
paying because you know like so much of
what matters in life is just the
relationships that you have and once you
identify the cost of that relationship
you're like oh I'll pay that cost all
day long so worth it this requires you
to be cognizant of time Horizons and
your own time Horizons which is
something you talk a lot about in
chapter 16 of the psychology of money
why is it important for us to know our
time Horizons and what do you mean by
time Horizon it's the the amount of time
between now and whatever your goal is
which is very different for everybody
not just by your age but like if you
want to retire early or whatever would
be like everyone's going to have a
slightly different time Horizon what's
yours mine I mean I you would break it
up into different chunks like I want to
get to a point or maybe I'm nearing a
point in my career where I'm just doing
things because I enjoy them there's
really no Financial incentive to what
I'm doing that's one time Horizon
another is like okay once my kids start
getting older I I want to make sure that
like I'm always there for them when they
need me teenage years are so difficult
for people like I'm always 24/7 I'll be
there for you which means I'm going to
have to pull back there's going to be a
point where I just say look I've
accomplished what I want to with writing
and I want to be able to move on to
something else and there's going to be a
point where I say I really don't want to
work that much anymore I just want to
move on and maybe I need to take care of
my parents would it be so like there's
multip multile different time Horizons
at different goals of your life is
buying a house a good or bad financial
decision I'll tell you my own experience
which was in my 20s and early 30s my
wife and I lived in like seven different
cities and there was nothing better for
us some of those were just like let's
try this new city for fun some of it was
moving for work we moved for her school
and our ability to just get up and go
hand the keys back to the landlord
nothing was more valuable than that once
we had our son our first kid then very
quickly nothing became more valuable to
me than having an established secure
home base that nobody could take away
from me that was The Cure and also like
kids are loud and they scream and I
didn't want Neighbors in an apartment
building that I was going to have to
like try to keep my kid quiet from so I
was I want my own house that's mine and
it's just a standalone house my kid can
scream as loud as he wants not bothering
anybody else that became important to me
like instantly so it's Le I think people
get caught up when they're like well the
housing market returns 4 and a half% per
year that's it's like with the
spreadsheets like just do what's going
to work for you I know I know RIT Siti
has a lot of thoughts about this on
renting versus buying and I think one
one of like the differences between
remit and myself is I have two young
kids and so like that that if I didn't
have kids I think I would be like rent
rent forever really and try and try
different cities move all move all
around what could be better than that
but when you have kids what's more
important to me is stability I want my
kids to go to a stable School know their
neighbors have friends that they can be
friends with for years that's important
if we just think about investing then in
terms of is buying a house a good
Financial investment my brother who
works in my company and he's the one
that introduced me to your book many
many years ago said to me something
along the lines of Steve don't buy
houses to make money because you have
the ability to play a different set of
games that very few people can play yeah
and what I mean by that is he kind of
explained it to me goes listen everyone
can buy a house so the returns there
aren't going to be huge go find a game
that like only you can play you'll get
bigger returns if you're buying a house
because you think it's going to be a
good Financial investment stop like even
if it turns out in hindsight that it was
it doesn't matter I think these are just
purely lifestyle decisions and I think
so many people get screwed up when
they're in a spot in their life where
they should be renting because they need
to be mobile they need to move around to
a new job new career new school whatever
it is but they end up buying because
they think they're going to make money
doing it and that's like that's the
problem so I own a house and if I ended
up losing money on it I I I I don't
think I'd care that that's not why I'm
owning it I'm owning it just cuz I want
the stability for my family I've just
made an offer on my first ever house and
I cuz I played I played other money
games for the last decade of My Life um
and now I have a partner and we've been
together many years and we're both like
31 years old and we're getting into that
position now you know Y and my brother
explained to me he goes listen this is a
bad financial decision but it's a good
emotional social life decision and you
need to know how to separate the two
don't mark this down as a way that
you're trying to make money like you
might make money in 20 years time if you
just like if you're still living there
look at it as you know you need
somewhere to live and he must have got
that from you when I when I when we
bought our last house which was after I
wrote this book so this is a different
experience um I thought at the time and
still think today I I probably paid a
little bit too much I mean I paid the
market rate but if you said like oh did
you get a good deal I say no no not
didn't bother me in the slightest that's
not what I was doing it for it would I
mean it would be like if you ask like if
someone is deciding whether or not to
have kids and they think about the cost
of kids like forget of course you're
going to dump hundreds of thousands or
millions of dollars into your kids and
it's G it's like if if money is coming
into the equation like stop right there
this is it should not do it you're doing
it for very different reasons this is
not an investment people people buy
houses because they think that they're
making loads of money from because there
have been periods in time in which
people have made loads of money
historically like that's the anomaly
historically in the US and the UK
housing prices adjust over inflation go
nowhere it's just been the last 20 or 30
years that there's this very brief
window of time that owning a house was a
great investment Robert Schiller won the
Nobel Prize about a decade ago for his
work in showing that over the last 150
years in the United States adjusted for
inflation most home prices have been
flat as a pancake it's just the last 20
years that have inflated people's
expectations of what a house can
do statistically there's going to be at
least one person listening to this that
has made an offer as we speak for a
house under the assumption that it's
going to help them stack
wealth if they were purely doing it for
those reasons what would you tell them
to do instead if that's purely the
reason run for run for your life don't
do it particularly I mean it it used to
be and maybe it still is like this in
many cities in America in the UK but it
used to be that rentals were almost
without exception shitty houses there
were no good rentals a big change at
least in America in the last 20 years is
that most cities have tons and tons of
luxury apartments to live in and that
are great places to live and they're in
the city centers and they got beautiful
granite countertops and they're great
places to live don't fall for the idea
that you can't live well if you're
renting I think that's that's that's the
problem and realize that if you're doing
it for financial reasons you're probably
about to borrow a shitload of money for
an investment that historically has been
a very bad investment like if you put it
in those terms like what are we doing
here man going to borrow hundreds of
thousands of dollars for an investment
that historically has been a loss that's
what you're doing here does you feel
good about that that's what I'd say to
that person God
speed I I would love to be in the room
somewhere where that person has just
looked at their partner after persuading
them to make that offer because it was
going to make them Rich sorry guys the
um this new
book same as ever essentially it's 23
short stories about things that never
change in the world y well there's a
couple of really interesting things that
I pulled out one of them again which
really hit me in the face was this idea
that the best story wins I know this I
know this intuitively I talk about it on
stage but I don't think people
understand the power of the best story
wins because when you think about
entrepreneurship or investing or
pitching or sales what most people do is
they lead out with facts stats and
figures yeah and even one of the things
I've noticed about you from our
conversation now is you have a
remarkable ability to tell stor thank
you and there's a huge power in that
prove to me that the best story wins I
mean it's it's always the case that it's
not the right answer or the best answer
or the mathematically accurate answer
it's just whoever gets people to nod
their heads in the right direction
that's who's going to win over time some
of the examples of this that I Love Ken
Burns one of the most famous uh
documentary filmmakers of all time most
of what is are in his
documentaries is is information that
people already know he'll make a
documentary about Civil War World War II
Vietnam whatever it would be there's not
you're not learn necessarily learning
something new in there but he is
massively successful massively popular
because he's probably the greatest
Storyteller of our time so even when
you're taking information that people
already know if you can spin a good
story about it you get people lining up
and they will knock your door down to
listen to you one other example of this
are people who tell comedy if you're a
good comedian like that's all just
storytelling and a lot of what a good
comedian does is takes something that's
very obvious and simple but you can make
you can tell a good story about it you
can make people laugh and all of a
sudden you get their attention and
they'll remember it you said in the book
not the best idea or the right idea or
the most rational idea just whoever
tells a story that catches people's
attention I think there are dangerous
stories which is when people want to is
when people tell you what you want to
hear oh I got a dangerous story The
vaccine gives you autism I think I think
it's a story that people wanted to hear
some people wanted to hear that and if
you tell people what they want to hear
you can be wrong forever and people
won't care because you tell them what
they want to hear T shrot who's a
neuroscientist sat here and she told me
a story of Donald Trump stood on the
debate stage and they panned over to Dr
Tucker Carson I believe he's called and
asked him about the vaccine and he
basically gave stats facts and figures
He said That vaccine doesn't give kids
autism and then they like pan over to
Donald Trump and Donald Trump tells this
elaborate story about a friend of his
one person one friend of his clearly
doesn't exist one friend of his and he
describes the needle like this he goes
this huge needle yeah and he so vivid
Vivid personal and emotional yep and you
get people nodding their heads to that
and and and capturing their attention
tally said I'm a neuroscientist I knew
it was wrong however there was something
about hearing it that even as a
neuroscientist I look to my daughter and
go [__] I think we've always been
storytellers and that's what's really
set humans apart that's the whole idea
from youval no Harari is that like what
sets humans apart is our ability to tell
and remember stories and it's made it so
it's just a tool to simplify facts in
the world like most people the other
thing is powerful about stories is that
you remember them you think about in
school when you had a math test and the
teacher just said memorize this formula
to regurgitate it on the test literally
5 minutes after the test is done you
forget it you have no idea what it was
but if you remembered a good story even
that you were told when you were two
years old you remember it for the rest
of your life so it's just a tool for
getting people to remember how the world
works and they be so persuasive and so
good at eliminating the uncertainty that
grates on all of us that people will
listen to and believe things even when
they're just obviously flagrantly not
true if it's what they want to hear
people talk about um when we're talking
about investing but generally life
people talk about compounding interest
and we all know the I think a lot of
people should know the power of
compounding interest now but we rarely
think about how compounding interest can
negatively slowly impact our lives and
in your chapter about tiny and
magnificent you explore that and again
this hit me like a truck in the face
because I I think I spend my time now
thinking about how getting things to
compound in my fa favor will change my
life but I don't spend a huge amount of
time thinking about how things are
compounding against me right now yeah
what what's really true is that most
good news happens slowly and most bad
news happens very fast so bad news is
like Co literally happens overnight boom
you got a you got a virus it's going to
kill millions of people shut down the
economy happens literally overnight 911
Happ happens start to finish it's like
30 minutes like boom just happens
immediately good news is usually slow
compounding over time so I use the
example of the book of like the
Improvement in heart disease mortality
over the last 70 years is Bonkers we've
made so much progress and saved
literally tens of millions of lives in
the fact that we've gotten better at
treating heart disease and but nobody
talks about it it's like it most people
are aren't even aware that it's happened
because if you look at what happened it
was the mortality improved it got better
by about 2% per year now if you compound
2% per year for 70 years it's off the
charts we're like living in such a
better world now than we were 70 years
ago but in any given year you didn't
even notice it you're never going to see
a news headline like breaking news heart
disease mortality improves by 1.4%
that's not a headline like all the
headlines are bad news because bad news
happens fast so once you realize that
then it's like most of the news is going
to skew negative not because there's
some producer who's trying to toy with
your brain it's just because what is
obviously happening today tends to be
the bad news where the good news is just
very slowly compounding over
time that can go in the other direction
of like bad news that compounds over
time I think about our health smoking
Health like that's like in like one
cigarette is not going to do anything
bad for you but one cigarette per day
for 30 years is catastrophic and so
that's that's really what it is like
same with like getting one bad night
sleep not that big a deal but if you're
sleeping 6 hours a night every night for
years on end you're going to reduce your
life expectancy by a tremendous amount
this idea of compounding interest and
compounding returns and how important it
is I've spent so long trying to explain
to people that compounding interest and
compounding returns this very hard thing
to think about is so important I imagine
you have two what is your go-to way of
explaining to like your eight-year-old
kid or someone else the power of
compounding we were actually going to
get like a bowl of rice here and I was
going to do some experiments the rice is
the best the the rice board experiment
if you if people aren't familiar with it
it's this story that's probably not true
that back 500 years ago someone uh you
know told the king they said hey here's
a here's a chess board I'm going to put
one grain of rice on the
first Square two on the second Square
four on the third and then let's do that
and by the end of the chessboard that's
like it's like more rice than exists in
the entire world because like if you
double something again and again and
again it's just completely
counterintuitive how big it can grow the
one way that I I I had a friend of mine
Michael batnick explained this to me
years ago I think he wrote this in a
blog post he said if I ask you what is 8
plus 8 plus 8 plus 8 you can do that in
your head like it's it's not it's not
that hard but if I say what is 8 time 8
time 8 time 8 like forget about it even
if you are really mathematically
inclined there's no way you can like
very few people could figure that out in
their head so our minds are just not
good at exponential thinking that's just
not it's it's just not something that
we're really geared towards doing like 8
plus 8 plus 8 it's like so simple linear
thinking so simple exponential thinking
not intuitive in the slightest and
because it's not intuitive it's so
common to underestimate what smoking is
going to do to you that compounds over
time what investing is capable of doing
to your wealth because it's so
counterintuitive that 99% of Warren
Buffett's net worth came after he was 60
years old not intuitive at all and so
since exponential thinking is not
intuitive both on the positive and the
negative side we go through life
underestimating what's going to happen
to us in good things and bad things it's
like a religion we have to adopt I think
I think that's a great way it's it's
like a mathematical religion because
just like a lot of religion it's like
it's not intuitive and it almost takes
like a leap of faith to be like I know
it's seems crazy but this is this is
what I believe I think there's a sense
of that to compounding where like it's
just math you can just put the numbers
in a spreadsheet and they'll tell you
what it is but since it's not intuitive
there's almost like a religious aspect
that you need to believe how powerful it
can be over time two of the chapters in
your book same is ever speak to the
importance of discomfort one of the
chapters is called when the magic
happens and you say in that chapter
stress pain discomfort shock and disgust
for all its tragic
downsides it's also when the magic
happens and then the other chapter where
you kind of speak to this is It's
supposed to be hard most things worth
pursuing charge their fee in the form of
stress uncertainty dealing with quirky
people bureaucracy other people's
conflicting incentives hassle nonsense
long hours and constant doubt that's the
overhead cost of getting ahead what's
interesting is I never tied those two
chapters together but you're right
they're they're almost the exact same
idea that for the the whole economy for
the whole world when the biggest
improvements in society takes place is
when there's some sort of disaster like
for all of its obvious downside and
death and destruction nothing has been
more technologically Progressive for the
world than World War II the number of
inventions that came out of World War II
from atomic energy to Jets and like go
on down the list penicillin all of these
lists for things that you and I are
taking advantage of today happened not
in spite of but because of World War II
because there was this period where
everyone in the world came together and
they're like holy [__] we got a big
problem to figure out let's put our
heads together and figure this out right
now but that's also on a personal level
on a personal level it happens as well
too like there there's there's there's a
book written many years ago called the
upside of down that's I thought that
just a brilliant title like the like the
upside of being down and it happens a
lot that when you have maybe it's a job
layoff or a breakup or a medical
emergency whatever it can be that it
changes you for the good and it's hard
it's always impossible to see that
silver lining in the moment you don't
ever imagine there's going be a silver
lining in that moment but when you look
back in hindsight it will be I saw this
recent example of this that really
knocked me on my ass it was Steven coar
who I might be getting these details
wrong but I think when he was uh a young
child his father and brother died
tragically and he said at one point that
uh I don't want to put words in his
mouth but he said something along the
lines of like he is grateful for that
and he was asked like what do you mean
you're grateful for that and he said
look of course I wish it never happened
but it allowed him to understand the
emotions of other people and get closer
to other people who had also experience
something like that and so even in like
the deepest darkest moment of his life
that he says he of course he wishes it
didn't happen it taught him something
about Humanity that he's Greatful for
today that's an extreme example but I
think for a lot of people being laid off
from a job in the moment is going to be
the hardest thing they've ever dealt
with and in hindsight it's going to be
one of the best things that ever
happened to their career a breakup might
be the hardest thing you've ever been
through and in hindsight it might be the
best thing that's ever happened to you
so I that's always like that's when the
magic happens is when things get really
tough It's just always impossible to see
that when you're going through it a lot
of people would have clicked on to this
conversation and if they've gotten to
the end of the conversation well done to
them what conclusion can we offer them
based on everything we've talked about
as it specifically relates to wealth
creation and money first I think for
both of these books we're almost ending
exactly where we started which is like I
hope they get you to think about your
life in different way both of these
books and the Publishers hated this
there's no advice in the books never do
I say and therefore you should do this
and the publisher wants you to do that
and I said no no no because I don't know
you I don't know the person reading this
book who am I to say what you should do
with your own life I don't even know to
do with my own life but I hope it gets
you thinking about what you want and who
you are and what you are capable of what
you're not capable of if it gets you
thinking about your life then I think
I've been successful doing this rather
other than trying to assume that I can
give you specific advice about what to
do Morgan we have a closing tradition on
this podcast where the last guest leaves
a question for the next guest not
knowing who they're going to be leaving
it for and the question that's been left
for you
is what is your biggest regret in life
and how has that experience changed
you I think I've uh always been prone to
mild depression not not significant but
mild depression and anxiety and I wish I
could go back to different periods of my
life in a time machine and just say it's
going to be okay it's not going to be
easy it's not going to be perfect but
it's gonna it's it's going to be fine
and I I I look back not with regret but
how much time have I wasted worrying
about things that never happened and
were almost certainly never going to
happen a tremendous amount and even if I
recognize that today I know I'm going to
worry about something tonight and
tomorrow and next week about something I
really shouldn't be worrying about I
don't know if I regret it because I
think having a sense of worry has kept
me safe A lot of times it's kept me out
of trouble in in a lot of things but I
do look back at the course of my life
and think man like I could have been
happier than I was if I had accepted a
certain level of just telling myself
it's going to be
okay well you're not going to have to
worry about your book because it's
superb thank you genuinely I I you know
hope my audience trust me um but I I
would really implore them to get both
books I mean the psychology of money I
think is the best book on money ever
written it's pretty much also the only
book I've ever read on money and then
same as ever is
just it's everything it's advice on
money life relationships everything that
matters because there are a set of
enduring principles that speak to the
fundamentals of life in a way that is
completely enduring you have a wonderful
ability to write enduring things and you
tell wonderful stories like you say I
actually didn't even notice that you
didn't give me advice when you said that
You' not given me advice any and I never
will to anybody bullshitting but you
know think about it you didn't I I
garnered my advice from the stories you
told and the evidence you provided
Morgan thank you so much I'm so glad we'
managed to have this conversation and
it's been a huge honor and pleasure um
to meet you thank you as well because I
can't imagine how many millions of
pounds you've Saved Me by writing this
book genuinely it's such an honor to do
this with you Stephen this been a lot of
fun thank
you as you'll know this podcast is
sponsored by hu and we're going into
that last quarter of the year it's
getting a little bit colder back into
our routines back into our work rhythms
and it's in those moments that I need to
focus most on my diet as I get back into
the swing of work I need to get back
into a routine as it relates to my diet
and that's really where hu's RTD they're
ready to drink range comes in handy in a
bottle you have a nutritionally complete
meal that you can consume in a minute so
this is a real Lifesaver in terms of my
health it is my Ally and my friend and
my companion on my busiest days and it
means that even when I'm pursuing all of
my professional goals my health goals
can be pursued at the same time there's
a link in the description below if
you've never tried heels rtds this is
the time if you're falling off of the
wagon this is the sign you needed to get
back on there's a link below in the
description order yourself a pack stay
healthy throughout this busy period do
you need a podcast to listen to next
we've discovered that people who liked
this episode also tend to absolutely
love another recent episode we've done
so I've linked that episode in the
description below I know you'll enjoy it
[Music]
a